## Integrating Strategies: Company, Sales & Marketing

 In the past years, the economy has shifted from a **manufacturing oriented to
a marketing oriented approach**. The impact of this change is that  anager doesn't design the product, applying a manufacturer's view of the process. Instead, they do it by researching carefully **what potential customers demand**. The change also impacts how manager design the **commercial structure, marketing, sales and promotions of the products or service**. Only after these step's we'll
manage to **develop the production, manufacturing, and sourcing process to make the goods, and to structure the services to developing and delivery.** In this process, it's clear that marketing and sales function increased a lot in importance. From the strategic perspective, it's completely different
from the **previous approach. In the previous approach, marketing sales functions, where most focus on pushing the sales.** While in the new approach, **marketing and sales focus on analyzing how the market will fuel the demand of products and service**. And therefore **designing the products and service accordingly to the potential demand**. This discussion doesn't mean that
market and sales function didn't and help us before. If you only emphasize that in the past, the importance was only needed to sell the already made goods. While in the new approach, the importance in  **needed
to identify what the demand is. Aiming to offer the right product and service**. Offers and context. Under this strategic guidance, all aspects of the business should be integrated. Otherwise, the goals may not be achieved. The consequence of such strategic orientation is that the system of operations of the company mobilizes the areas towards **customer satisfaction**. The role of sales is crucial because
the integration of demands put the philosophy into action, which means applying foresight view, **marketing research, products and services portfolio planning, sales forecasting, advertising,
incentive models, distribution, sales performance analysis, monitoring, controlling, and feedback.** This path of processes clearly illustrates the transition from strategy to sales results analysis. Which highlights the **integration between strategy and sales function**. It also emphasizes the link
between marketing and sales. If these areas integrate to a high level, the better for the company in the transition from strategy to sales, when the sales manager is on an approach that is market oriented, is the fact that the personal selling plays a fundamental role in the company. Let's apply this approach. Managers should apply all of their efforts to address sales teams development in this context. Also important is the fact that the strategic guidelines give the directions for the company. And these directions may include
some key performance indicators. At the strategic level, corporations establish **corporate goals related to the cash flow and earnings**, which inspires corporate executives to define goals like **EBITDA Margin, expected cash flow, or earnings per share**. This is just an example of goals. Leave the executives to establish heavily goals as the business liable, the company liable. Revenues are the driver to support the
corporate goals set to strategic level. And what are the drivers of the revenue? Let's start thinking of products and service. The portfolio of products and service are the drivers of revenue, and to generate revenue, they must be sold. As simple as that. Here, we have the undeniable proof that **sales function is one of the top issues in the business**, and to perform it at a high level sales, managers need to support, offer assist, and plan it to keep the tools, arguments, incentive programs, and adequate communication and distribution to serve the potential customers, and to perform it at a high level. In other words,
sales function needs marketing function. Marketing is a function that needs assumptions to be developed. And a great deal of the assumptions come from the strategic level of the company. Consequently,** marketing needs strategic guidelines. And then the transition path of strategy, marketing and sales, is demonstrated in this discussion**. Now let's talk about flexible integration. Up to this point, it's important to remember that strategic planning process doesn't meant to be an inflexible plan. Managers can adopt an emergence strategy that was not in the original plan. Mintzberg in 1994  proposed this approach and
one of the example he use to [...] and favour of it relates to the sales area. His point is that the sales person
can have the initiative to sell an existing product to a new customer. And during the time, sales people who have contact with the sales person, is that doing the same. The consequence is the company
develops a whole new market without this strategy being even previously planned. Also the link between strategy and sales function should be emphasized in the planning process, and in a way that the resulting sale strategy means worksingsmarter not working harder. States that sale strategy
should focus on customers and approach in the buying decision. A final word emphasize the topic
that we discussed in this meeting, manager should make efforts to integrate the strategy, marketing and sales should generate as similar like sales strategic plan. Maybe the plan will not be complete,
however, it will give then the appropriate conditions to make the most from the sales plan, and be able to capture immersion opportunities that might come in the future. Did you like it? Nice. Now I invite you to see the first episode of the strategizer, the place where the smart sales people meet.